so what you really need is an effective
search strategy to help you find the
perfect woman for you without having
today every single one of them okay got
one optimal stopping theory it's called
that is not why I thought what you're
gonna say okay so I was invented 1875 by
chap called Arthur Cayley essentially to
gamble better and to Harvard
mathematicians worked out the best
chance you give yourself of stopping on
the one the perfect woman for you is to
spend the first 37 percent of your days
just kind of not taking them too
seriously having a nice time getting a
bit of a feel for the marketplace and so
on and then after that 37 percent period
has passed you should then pick the next
woman to come along that is better than
everybody that you've seen before and if
you do that you're maximizing your
chances mathematically they're finding
the perfect woman for you and what will
the chances be of the one after 37
percent that one being the right woman
well okay what so if you picked somebody
completely at random in your list of a
hundred and just chose that person to go
on your date with your chance of getting
the best person in your list would be
one percent right one and a hundred but
this technique just having that little
projection phase if those ever seen at
the beginning means that you increase
your chances all the way from 1 percent
to 37 percent if the number of potential
dates n fours and is a hundred his
chance of success P is highest when he
rejects 37% of potential partners his
success rate drops off if he either
reduces or increases his rejection phase
are the time before he starts thinking
seriously about a match okay that is an
amazing bit of math that is
extraordinary so imagine if you decides
to take a hundred people reject the
first 37 of them and then pick the next
person who comes along that's better
than everyone that you've seen before
and take that person on a date Wow
okay so a hundred people seems
reasonable yes
okay so I just start two three four are
there some of these that you would swipe
right to this person I would definitely
swipe right she looks lovely and
according to you I have to reject her
because you told me to
so like this person seems nice no get
rid of them so you carry on swiping left
for the entire time and then you end up
well probably dying alone
nursing a deep hatred of mathematical
formulas and mathematicians yeah you and
the two guys at Harvard primarily
[Music]
you